My name is Tom Dibble Dempsey and I have lived in Atlanta, Georgia for the last 40 years hailing from the Charleston, SC area. 

I moved to Atlanta for the culture andf to finish my college career at Georgia State University earning a Computer Science and Business degee. While at Georgia Stae, I was very involved the the GSU alliance.

Early on, I was very involved with the LGBTQ community in Atlanta working with GLADD, HRC, Georgia Equlity and other organizations. I am currently the president of the Geogia LGBTQ History project - a 501(c)3 non-profit preserving the history of Atlanta andf Georgia by archive at all the local universites and the Atlanta History Center. We have a very robust Facebook page with daily emepheral pasts on our past streuggles ande successes. We also hold a monthly Zoom with featured speakers with the last Zoom honoring Dr. Jesse Peel and his contr4ibitions to Atlanta featuring Mark King as our main speaker.

My current projects include expanding the History Project's mission and digitizing our past publication further. Kennesaw State has recently digisized the 1988-1994 editions of Southern Voice and we plan to work with our partners to ditigized the rest as well as Cruise and Etceterta magazines. I am also working with Auburn Avenure Library to digitize their African-American magazines from the last few decades and working to find the copyright owners.

I am also spearhearing Atlanta's bid for the 2030 Gat Games having worked on the last few bids for the international event. 

"The mission of the Federation of Gay Games is to promote equality, diversity and inclusion through sport and culture.

The Gay Games is built upon the core principles of Participation, Inclusion, and Personal Best™. Based on these values, since 1982, the Gay Games have brought together people from all over the world, with diversity, respect, equality, solidarity, and sharing. The Gay Games is open to all, young or old, athlete or artist, experienced or novice, gay or straight." - Gaygames.org

The Gay Games would be a $20-30mm impact for Atlanta and the Atlanta Conventions and Visitors Beaueau as well as the Atlanta Sports Coiunil is fully behind this endevou. 