The 25th National Conference on LGBT Equality: Creating Change Comes to Atlanta January 23-27, 2013!

Atlanta will be rolling out the rainbow carpet next week when the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force (NGLTF) presents its annual conference known as "Creating Change" marking the 25th gathering of political, leadership and skills-building training for the LGBT social justice movement. The five day event features local and national leaders bringing people together from all levels of the LGBT movement to build and expand the power of our LGBT communities.  

Creating Change will be held at the Hilton in Atlanta, Georgia on January 23-27, 2013. Each year this conference brings in around 3,500 people from around the country that convene to participate in radical, transformative workshops on social justice in LGBT communities. 

"We are proud that Atlanta has been chosen as the host city this year. We are mobilizing the entire community to help in large and small ways to make this a great experience for all the participants," states Jesse Morgan, one of the co-chairs for the 2013 Creating Change Atlanta host committee. The other three co-chairs are Michael Shutt, Gwen Thomas and Everette Thompson. The co-chairs have been meeting mnthly with local volunteers to secure community housing, volunteers and general support for the upcoming comference.

According to the website, "over the five days of the Creating Change Conference, our program presents over 15 day-long institutes, two dozen sophisticated trainings in the Academy for Leadership and Action, a special programming segment called Practice Spirit, Do Justice for faith leaders and organizers, approximately 250 workshops and caucus sessions, four keynote plenary sessions, worshipful gatherings, film screenings, meetings, receptions, social events, and a multitude of opportunities for attendees to meet and learn from each other." 

The featured plenary speakers and performers include:

Kate Clinton - comedianne and Master of Ceremonies,

Deepak Bhargava - Executive Director of the Center for Community Change (CCC),

Rea Carey - executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force,

Jose Antonio Vargas - founder of Define American, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization dedicated to elevating and reframing the immigration conversation,

Frenchie Davis - musician with hit single <i>Love's Got A Hold on Me<i> appearing on <i>American Idol<i> and <i>The Voice<i>.

For more information and to register, visit http://www.creatingchange.org/. Also view the 2013 Creating Change Program book here and download the free Creating Change App. It'll give you the schedule, maps, news, info about all the events, and you can even add your own photos. 