An Unusal Expeience

My Facebook account was HACKED Friday night/Saturday morning by stating a simple question - "Have you used the n-word?" The question crossed my mind since I have heard the word all my life and always say "that is not cool." And the Paula Deen issue blew up. My questions was "what hypocrites!" We have all used the word over the years but my contention is "in what concept?" In my mind it is the "intent" of the word that matters.

I have made many enemies lately and expected it. 

I grew up in a somewhat liberal household in Orangeburg, SC and was always taught not to use the n-word. After all, I grew up in South Carolina with the largest African-America population in the country. I played with the local black kids on my grandparents farm and had a great upbringing. My high school was 85% black and I enjoyed it. 

Although I went to Clemson University 1980-82 it was somewhat segregated by sports but I was happily mixed with all areas of the university. It was not an issue to me and I felt very at home.

You learn in life and although Atlanta is the center of civil rights - it doesn't really doesn't fall out that way. Atlanta is very segregated in some areas which is unfortunate - but it is a multi-cultural city where modern people respect each other on race. It's not always the case but we try. 

The color of Atlanta is really "green" and money drives much of Atlanta. I would think that is the issue everywhere.

I am offended when any artists use the n-word in their act - especially Chris Rock and others. My favorite question is "if anyone would play you in a movie who would it be?" I always say Chris Rock for shock value but he and I have much in common. He would be perfect without the n-word. (I love his delivery.)

I have several run-ins with political and social issues lately and do not doubt this is a retaliation to my issues - but I am appalled for any one hurt by these targeted insults. There were many and I have tried to clean them up.

My reputation is damaged but I feel mostly people don't care since my influence has declined over the years. Yes, who cares!

If I stay in Atlanta, my goal is LGBTQ youth and working with the organizations to help the kids. We have several groups looking to make sure our gay youth has a safety net including "Lost And Found" and other great organizations. I feel strongly for our youth. 

There are other great issues in town but blocked by the "gay mafia" to keep their influence. So be it.

I will continue to work for all the people of Atlanta and the surrounding area and hope we can come together for a Better Atlanta!

Tom Dibble Dempsey?

Sister crass as usual.