THE BUSINESS JOURNALS
 
Select a City
Sign In
Search Form
Atlanta Business Chronicle
AN INSIGHTFUL EXCHANGE WITH ATLANTA LEADERS ABOUT INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND LESSONS ON ACHIEVING SUCCESS.
Listen to 'On Leadership with Atlanta Business Chronicle'
LIMITED TIME OFFER
Subscribe
Menu
Latest News
Lists & Leads
Commercial Real Estate
Banking
Technology
Health Care
Residential Real Estate
Atlanta Inno
|
Events
Nominations
Commercial Real Estate
National coffee chain to expand across suburban Atlanta, Southeast
 Email
  Share
  Share
  Tweet
 Share Article
 Print Order Reprints
Scooter's Coffee plans to open at least 51 drive-thru kiosks in Georgia as part of an exponential expansion across the Southeast.
Enlarge
Scooter's Coffee plans to open at least 51 drive-thru kiosks in Georgia as part of an exponential expansion across the Southeast.
SCOOTER'S COFFEE

IN THIS ARTICLE

Food & Lifestyle
Industry
Nick Jarecke
Person


By Tyler Wilkins  –  Reporter, Atlanta Business Chronicle
a day ago
A national coffee chain has its sights set on getting coffee into the hands of time-crunched suburban commuters across Atlanta and the Southeast.

In May, Scooter's Coffee is set to open a 40,000-square-foot distribution center on Southwoods Parkway in Hapeville. The facility will help the company with its massive $250 million to $300 million expansion into Georgia and several other states.

The chain has 18 locations across the Southeast. But over the next six years, the company plans to open an additional 340 drive-thru kiosks across the fast-growing region in small towns and suburban areas. More than 50 of those stores would be located in Georgia.

“We’ve seen a lot of people relocate to the Southeast,” said Nick Jarecke, senior vice president of Scooter's supply chain division. “Our core values are integrity, love, humility and courage. And we believe those core values fit well with a Southeastern culture.”

Besides aiding in the transportation of coffee, baked goods and other items, the facility will have a mock store for new franchisees to experience what it’s like operating a kiosk. The chain chose metro Atlanta for a new facility, given its status as a logistics hub for the Southeast, Jarecke said.

The chain already operates distribution centers in Omaha, Kansas City and Dallas, with plans to open another 55,000-square-foot facility in Omaha this spring. Scooter’s has its own vertically integrated supply division known as Harvest Roasting.

The company has two cafe-style locations in Georgia, one on Canton Road near Town Center at Cobb and another on West Crossville Road in Roswell. Its first kiosk in the state is set to open in Winder late this summer.

The drive-thru locations are intended to target customers in need of their daily dose of caffeine while commuting to work or school, Jarecke said. The company hopes to compete with chains already well-established in the Southeast by focusing on speed, product quality and customer service, he said.

"Our customers have a few minutes in their busy day, and we have an opportunity to serve them in a speed and get them on their way," Jarecke said.

The List
Atlanta's Largest Commercial Developers - Industrial
Ranked by Square feet developed, 2020-2021*
Rank	Company	Square Feet Developed, 2020-2021*
1
Panattoni Development Co. Inc.	5,841,030
2
Seefried Industrial Properties Inc.	5,152,782
3
Core5 Industrial Partners	4,756,464
View This List
RECOMMENDED
  MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 2022
Bizwomen Mentoring Monday | Virtual Event
Like many powerful women before you, engage in an opportunity for mentorship from the most influential women in Atlanta's local business community.

Register now
  DEADLINE: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2022
2022 Corporate Counsel Awards
Is your corporate counsel raising the bar? Atlanta Business Chronicle and the Association of Corporate Counsel, Georgia Chapter are seeking nominations for the 2022 Atlanta Corporate Counsel Awards.

See nomination details
RELATED CONTENT
Gusto embraces drive-thrus as owner Nate Hybl eyes new fast-food model
Gusto embraces drive-thrus as owner Nate Hybl eyes new fast-food model
Which companies signed the biggest industrial leases in 2021?
Which companies signed the biggest industrial leases in 2021?
Atlanta companies may pay higher rents for industrial space in 2022
Atlanta companies may pay higher rents for industrial space in 2022
Warehouse costs keep rising but that's not slowing tenant demand
Warehouse costs keep rising but that's not slowing tenant demand
Demand devouring prime warehouse space west of Atlanta
Demand devouring prime warehouse space west of Atlanta
MORE FOR YOU
More 

Liberty Media pulls in record $568M in revenue at Truist Park; ticket sales 'a little crazy'

Viewpoint: Cobb County poised for economic growth

Apartment investors eye southwest Atlanta for value-add opportunities

Companies expand and move to Cobb County

Air filters and outdoor spaces: Office costs rise as workers return

The list: Spotlight on Atlanta's largest engineering companies
Latest Listings
More 
HOME OF THE DAY 20
Fabulous home in close proximity to the Atlanta Beltline
SPONSORED
Fabulous home in close proximity to the Atlanta Beltline
HOME OF THE DAY 14
Palmyra Terrace Homes at Trilith - 2021 Mixed Use Development of the Year
SPONSORED
Palmyra Terrace Homes at Trilith - 2021 Mixed Use Development of the Year
HOME OF THE DAY 20
Breathtaking estate overlooking nearly 10 acres!
SPONSORED
Breathtaking estate overlooking nearly 10 acres!
Back to Top 
Atlanta Business Chronicle
Home
News
Lists & Leads
People
Companies
Events
Store
SUBSCRIBERS
Start a Subscription
Subscriber-Only Content
Digital Edition
Book of Lists
Book of Lists - Unlimited
Manage your Account
Manage My Advertising

ABOUT & CONTACT
About Us
About The Business Journals
Advertise
Help & FAQs
Circulation Sales Center Directory
APPS & SYNDICATION
Mobile Apps
Syndication/RSS
FOLLOW US
TwitterLinkedInFacebook
NEWSLETTERS
Sign Up Now
ACBJ
American City Business Journals
AmericanInno
BizEquity
BizLeads
Bizwomen
Hemmings
User Agreement   |   Privacy Policy   |   Your California Privacy Rights   |   Ad Choices
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
© 2022 American City Business Journals. All rights reserved. Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/21) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 7/20/21). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of American City Business Journals.

